now in the last few hours Israeli tanks
have begun firing artillery shells at
buildings at the Rafa land border
crossing now this is a key entry point
for Aid coming in from Egypt air strikes
have also been targeting surrounding
neighborhoods over the last few days
let's go to Anthony Lowenstein he's an
independent journalist and author of The
Palestine laboratory which is a book on
Israel's arms and surveillance industry
joins us now from Sydney good to see you
again Anthony so this is a this is a
very recent development this is this has
been happening the last few hours that
Israel has started shelling the Rafa
land Crossing between Egypt and Gaza
what do you what do you make of
this it shows that once again there are
no red lines you know after the last
months when we've consistently heard
from President Biden many in the EU even
in the Arab world that there's a red
line Israel cannot go into rougher that
red line does not exist and what we're
seeing I think here is netanyahu's
so-called strategy which is that he
realizes within the Israeli public he's
deeply unpopular his stated aims on
October the 7th none of them have been
achieved namely so-called total victory
over Hamas destroying Hamas or getting
all the hostages back none of that has
happened and he therefore feels that
continuing the war a so-called Forever
War is essential and it's important just
to note that ruffer of course as you
rightly say is not just a key crossing
point for aid but also for people but
the only way Palestinians can get out of
Rafa the ones who are able to leave is
there and if that border shuts then the
roughly 1.5 million Palestinians who are
trapped in Rafa have nowhere to
go I mean we're hearing from Israeli
media reports that Israeli forces are
planning to capture this border crossing
in the next few hours talk us through uh
the significance of this border crossing
how significant would it be
that dided happen I me this is where the
majority of aid for example comes
in and the fact is as vir every Aid
organization is saying for months that
there is a literal famine going on in
northern part of Gaza and many other
parts of Gaza and a key entry point for
the aid that is getting in which is
still far far too little is Raa so if
that shuts what that essentially shows
which has been clear four months
starvation is the point I think for a
lot of people in the International
Community the idea that a state that we
see is democratic when I say we I mean
much in the western Elites see as
Democratic Israel would deliberately
starve a Palestinian population is seen
as so outrageous sure Russia or China
would do that Israel would never do that
but in fact that's what they're doing
right now so if ruer is shut down or
reduced in terms of the ability to get
Aid in already there is massive
malnutrition starvation children are d
there's an access to water problem
there's huge amounts of pollution within
the water that many people are drinking
many diseases are exploding in ruer and
elsewhere and even in the areas by the
way that Israel has claimed the
so-called safe zones and there are no
safe zones in Gaza are being bombed and
yet again we see that the US and frankly
much International Community which
basically means the US will not put a
break on Israel which they
could do you think that this is it this
is effectively that much touted Rafa
operation that we've all been sort of
dreading is this starting
now look it may be and but I think what
Israel will find even if they go into
ruer with lots and lots of troops and
they try to destroy more tunnels or try
to get some more Hamas lead is what
they'll find in other parts of Gaza the
as the US found in Iraq or Afghanistan
after years of occupation you cannot
actually successfully occupy
territory without insane amounts of
troops millions of troops which Israel
does not have so even if Israel's in
Rafa what we already seeing in other
parts of Gaza the North and elsewhere is
Hamas forces still operating still
existing still fighting that will
continue it is impossible to finally
militarily destroy hamus you can degrade
them to be sure but the idea that
somehow you can destroy that and it's
important to not that there are some Gin
who
undeniably despise Hamas because of
what's happened in the last six months
along with Israel of course but hamas's
popularity in the West Bank is growing
other parts of the Arab and Muslim World
Hamas support is increasing you cannot
destroy the idea of what Hamas is for
better or worse and the dreaded Rua
incursion or Invasion really shows as I
said before that there's been no serious
International pressure on Israel none
weapons are still flowing from the US
and Germany particularly and it's pretty
shameful to me that all the outrage
fo outrage that we read in the
international press regurgitated from us
officials and European officials and
even Arab officials means nothing on the
ground where Israel is seemingly about
to go into rougher and cause
Carnage indeed okay good to speak to
Anthony Lowenstein independent
journalist and author of The Palestine
laboratory thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler